---
layout: post
title: Broken Window Syndrome
categories:
- software craft
tags
- 6packapps
- development
- gems
- productivity
- team
status: published
published: true
---

Let's talk about warnings.  Specifically, your project build and the warnings it generates when it runs.

One of the items we highlighted in DragonRuby Dispatch last week is the EOL of UIWebView. This 
deprecation has been coming at us for quite some time, and I really think this EOL should be a non-issue.
I mean, I had my co-op student go and fix all the occurrences of UIWebView in the Motion-In-Motion 
sample code back in the summer of 2018 (that was a LOT of PR’s). And the deprecation had been around 
for a while back then.

Shall we review for a moment WHY we shouldn’t ignore warning messages in our code? Think of these warning 
messages like the broken windows from [broken window theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken_windows_theory). 

> The broken windows theory is a criminological theory that states that visible signs of crime, anti-social 
> behavior, and civil disorder create an urban environment that encourages further crime and disorder, including 
> serious crimes. The theory suggests that policing methods that target minor crimes such as vandalism, public 
> drinking, and fare evasion help to create an atmosphere of order and lawfulness, thereby preventing more 
> serious crimes.

This comparison is, in my experience, so deadly accurate. The first warning in your code doesn't seem like it's
much of a problem. It'll take valuable time to fix, you tell yourself. Time that could be spent developing new 
features, or fixing bugs. Visible stuff that your boss or your users will see and care about. Fixing a warning? 
You (and the other developers of your team) are the only one(s) who will ever care about it.  

Or ... will they care? When one warning turns into 5, then 10, and then more. Your users will care about that 
bug slips by, because you didn't see the IMPORTANT warning message generated by your build, because it was hidden 
down in all the other warning messages that you've been ignoring. Your boss will care, when he thinks you only 
need to upgrade that one gem or library to protect your app from that zero-day exploit, but it turns out you've been 
ignoring the deprecation warnings from 5 other gems that depend on the old, insecure version, and a one hour fix 
is going to turn into a 2 day project. You'll care, when you are trying to track down a bug, but you can't find 
the logging message related to the problem, because of all the other crap warning messages that have been spewing
into your log file.  Your team mates will care, when the framework upgrade gets stalled, then cancelled, because it was
no one could navigate all the problems and errors it caused, in among all the warnings you've been ignoring.  
 
The more we ignore warning messages, the more it encourages us to ignore new warning messages, which eventually leads 
to a code base that we will hate working on. A code base that is nearly impossible to upgrade. A code base where we 
can’t find the REAL problems, because they are hiding down in the weeds of the problems we’ve been ignoring all along.

So let’s get out there and clean up some of those warning messages. Because some day, they ARE going to 
come and bite us when it’s going to really hurt. I’m looking at YOU, Evernote.

Ok, that's probably enough for this post.  Next time, I'll talk about the perils of over-policing when it comes to
warnings.