#Mentoring & Teaching at Ladies Learning Code

I am both a mentor and instructor for the non-profit group Ladies Learning Code, at their Calgary chapter, which is run by The Chic Geek.  It was quite exciting for me to watch this organization appear, and thrive, because I had been involved in helping/instructing at Rails Bridge, an organization devoted to get women involved in programming, in Madison, WI when I was there for MadRuby a few years ago.  I really wanted to see something like this in Canada, but I lacked the time and motivation to set it up myself.

As soon as the Chic Geek started looking for mentors in Calgary, I was there, volunteering at the inaugural HTML & CSS class.  The initial workshop(s) were a resounding success, and they quickly started expanding the workshop offerings and looking for additional mentors & instructors for these new classes.  So of course, I volunteered to instruct for the Ruby Workshop, which was loads of fun.

At one of the recent workshops, once again HTML & CSS, but this time for the National Girls Learning Code Day, I arm twisted one of my coworkers into coming out to mentor.  Back at work, he commented that it was the easiest thing ever, to just show up, and then sit around helping the students out with material that was, for him, so very basic.

That's a really good point.  Mentoring, especially when we get a LOT of mentors, is super easy to do, for a topic you are familiar with.  The student-mentor ratio for these workshops tops out at 4-1.  At this last workshop, it was more like 2-1, which is fantastic.  When you only have 2 students to help out, it's even easier.  And it is so rewarding to see all those little light-bulbs lighting up, as they "get it".  It's even more rewarding when one of your students goes "I know *exactly* what I want it to do now", as she goe entirely off script, building something completely unique to her.

And while mentoring is fun and easy, I know from experience that instructing is *even easier*.  First of all, most of the workshops have been created already, and there is an existing set of slides/exercises.  So, you don't even have to develop new material for the class, just review the stuff that is already there, and you can tweak and modify it for your personal style.  Then, all you have to do is stand up at the front of the room and run through the material.  The mentors are doing most of the "hard" work, answering most of the questions.  So really, it's a smooth and easy way of getting some experience teaching.  

Now that I have moved to Lethbridge, it is a little more challenging for me to organize to attend these workshops.  I'm starting to think that, as soon as I finish off my book, it might be time to consider setting up a Ladies Learning Code chapter here in the windy city.  After all, we have both a college and a university.  Lethbridge has a thriving tech community.  We should be able to scrape up enough mentors for workshops.  Maybe not every month, but at least quarterly.  Something to plan for in the New Year!
